autorevision.asciidoc, before:

= AUTOREVISION(1) =
:doctype: manpage

== NAME ==
autorevision - extract head metadata from version-control repositories

== SYNOPSIS ==
*autorevision* {*-t* output-type | *-s* symbol} [*-o* cache-file] [*-V*]

== DESCRIPTION ==
*autorevision* extracts metadata about the head version of your
repository.

This program is meant to be used by project build systems to extract
properties that can be used in software version strings. It can emit
source files containing variable and macro definitions suitable for
use with C, C++, sh, Python, Perl, Mac info.plist and other types of
files (see below for the full list).

The generated source is written to standard output.

This program must be called from the top-level (root) directory
of a repository. Exception: it can be called from any level of a
Subversion checkout directory, but not from within a Subversion
repository directory.

If you specify a cache file, then when *autorevision* is run where no
repository can be recognized, the values from the cache file will be
used instead.  If a repository can be recognized, the cache is
rewritten. This feature makes it possible for your build to run
from an unpacked tarball that includes the cache file.

=== Valid Repository Types ===

*Git*: A version greater than 1.7.2.3 is recommended.

*Mercurial*: A version greater than 1.6 is recommended.

*Subversion*: Any production version.  Warning: due to limitations in
Subversion this program can run very long on large Subversion
repositories.

=== Valid Output Types ===

*h*::
A header file suitable for C/C++.

*xcode*::
A header output for use with xcode to populate info.plist strings.

*sh*::
A text file suitable for including from a bash script.  Will work with Ruby.

*py*::
A Python source file setting Python variables.

*pl*::
A Perl source file setting Perl variables.

*lua*::
A lua source file setting lua variables.

*php*::
A PHP source file setting PHP variables.

*ini*::
A ini source file setting ini variables.

*js*::
A javascript source file setting javascript variables.

=== Valid Symbol Names ===

*VCS_TYPE*::
The repository type - "git", "hg", or "svn".

*VCS_BASENAME*::
The basename of the directory root. For most VCSes this will simply
be the basename of the repository root directory.  For Subversion,
*autorevision* will navigate up though trunk, branches, and tags
directories to find the actual root.

*VCS_NUM*::
A count of revisions between the current one and the initial
one; useful for reporting build numbers.

*VCS_DATE*::
The date of the most recent commit in true ISO-8601/RFC3339
format, including seconds.

*VCS_URI*::
Repository dependent: for Git the full refspec & for Mercurial the
bookmark or the branch if there is no bookmark, empty for Subversion;
meant to provide information on the current head's name.

*VCS_TAG*::
The exact current tag or a synonym for `VCS_URI` if not currently on a
tag; useful to to rely on for a version string. Empty under Subversion.

*VCS_FULL_HASH*::
A full unique identifier for the current revision.

*VCS_SHORT_HASH*::
A shortened version VCS_FULL_HASH, but VCS_FULL_HASH
if it cannot be shortened.

*VCS_WC_MODIFIED*::
Set to 1 if the current working directory has been
modified and 0 if not. If the output language has native Boolean
literals, true will mean modified and false unmodified.

== OPTIONS ==

*-t* 'output-type'::
Sets the output type. It is required unless -s is specified; both *-t*
and *-s* cannot be used in the same invocation.

*-o* 'cache-file'::
Sets the name of the cache file.

*-s* 'symbol'::
Changes the reporting behavior; instead of emitting a symbol file to
stdout, only the value of that individual symbol will be reported. It
is required unless *-t* is specified; both *-t* and *-s* cannot be used
in the same invocation.

*-V*::
Emits the autorevision version and exits.

== AUTHORS ==

dak180 <dak180@users.sf.net>: concept, bash/C/C++/XCode/PHP/ini
support, git and hg extraction.  Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>:
Python/Perl support, svn extraction, CLI design, man page.

Commit message:

VCS_URI -> VCS_BRANCH, with better documentation.

autorevision.asciidoc, after:

= AUTOREVISION(1) =
:doctype: manpage

== NAME ==
autorevision - extract head metadata from version-control repositories

== SYNOPSIS ==
*autorevision* {*-t* output-type | *-s* symbol} [*-o* cache-file] [*-V*]

== DESCRIPTION ==
*autorevision* extracts metadata about the head version of your
repository.

This program is meant to be used by project build systems to extract
properties that can be used in software version strings. It can emit
source files containing variable and macro definitions suitable for
use with C, C++, sh, Python, Perl, Mac info.plist and other types of
files (see below for the full list).

The generated source is written to standard output.

This program must be called from the top-level (root) directory
of a repository. Exception: it can be called from any level of a
Subversion checkout directory, but not from within a Subversion
repository directory.

If you specify a cache file, then when *autorevision* is run where no
repository can be recognized, the values from the cache file will be
used instead.  If a repository can be recognized, the cache is
rewritten. This feature makes it possible for your build to run
from an unpacked tarball that includes the cache file.

=== Valid Repository Types ===

*Git*: A version greater than 1.7.2.3 is recommended.

*Mercurial*: A version greater than 1.6 is recommended.

*Subversion*: Any production version.  Warning: due to limitations in
Subversion this program can run very long on large Subversion
repositories.

=== Valid Output Types ===

*h*::
A header file suitable for C/C++.

*xcode*::
A header output for use with xcode to populate info.plist strings.

*sh*::
A text file suitable for including from a bash script.  Will work with Ruby.

*py*::
A Python source file setting Python variables.

*pl*::
A Perl source file setting Perl variables.

*lua*::
A lua source file setting lua variables.

*php*::
A PHP source file setting PHP variables.

*ini*::
A ini source file setting ini variables.

*js*::
A javascript source file setting javascript variables.

=== Valid Symbol Names ===

*VCS_TYPE*::
The repository type - "git", "hg", or "svn".

*VCS_BASENAME*::
The basename of the directory root. For most VCSes this will simply
be the basename of the repository root directory.  For Subversion,
*autorevision* will navigate up though trunk, branches, and tags
directories to find the actual root.

*VCS_NUM*::
A count of revisions between the current one and the initial
one; useful for reporting build numbers.

*VCS_DATE*::
The date of the most recent commit in true ISO-8601/RFC3339
format, including seconds.

*VCS_BRANCH*:: The name of the branch of the commit graph that was
selected when autoversion was run. Under Subversion this will normally
be either 'trunk' or the basename of some branch or tag subdirectory,
depending on where *autoversion* was run. Under git, this will
normally be the shortname of the current branch (the asterisked line
in the output of of git branch) except that when the branch doesn't
have a shortname it will be a full refspec. Under hg the feature that
is called 'branches' is actually a sort of graph coloring (multiple
heads can have the same branch name) so this variable is filled withe
current bookmark if it exists, with the current branch name as a
fallback.

*VCS_TAG*::
The exact current tag or a synonym for `VCS_URI` if not currently on a
tag; useful to to rely on for a version string. Empty under Subversion.

*VCS_FULL_HASH*::
A full unique identifier for the current revision.

*VCS_SHORT_HASH*::
A shortened version VCS_FULL_HASH, but VCS_FULL_HASH
if it cannot be shortened.

*VCS_WC_MODIFIED*::
Set to 1 if the current working directory has been
modified and 0 if not. If the output language has native Boolean
literals, true will mean modified and false unmodified.

== OPTIONS ==

*-t* 'output-type'::
Sets the output type. It is required unless -s is specified; both *-t*
and *-s* cannot be used in the same invocation.

*-o* 'cache-file'::
Sets the name of the cache file.

*-s* 'symbol'::
Changes the reporting behavior; instead of emitting a symbol file to
stdout, only the value of that individual symbol will be reported. It
is required unless *-t* is specified; both *-t* and *-s* cannot be used
in the same invocation.

*-V*::
Emits the autorevision version and exits.

== AUTHORS ==

dak180 <dak180@users.sf.net>: concept, bash/C/C++/XCode/PHP/ini
support, git and hg extraction.  Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>:
Python/Perl support, svn extraction, CLI design, man page.
